<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Encounter at Midhurst</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Encounter at Midhurst</h2>
			<section id="NN-XVII" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
				<p>We left Mr. Hoopdriver at the door of the little tea, toy, and tobacco shop. You must not think that a strain is put on coincidence when I tell you that next door to Mrs. Wardor’s⁠—that was the name of the bright-eyed, little old lady with whom Mr. Hoopdriver had stopped⁠—is the Angel Hotel, and in the Angel Hotel, on the night that Mr. Hoopdriver reached Midhurst, were ‘Mr.’ and ‘Miss’ Beaumont, our Bechamel and Jessie Milton. Indeed, it was a highly probable thing; for if one goes through Guildford, the choice of southward roads is limited; you may go by Petersfield to Portsmouth, or by Midhurst to Chichester, in addition to which highways there is nothing for it but minor roadways to Petworth or Pulborough, and cross-cuts Brightonward. And coming to Midhurst from the north, the Angel’s entrance lies yawning to engulf your highly respectable cyclists, while Mrs. Wardor’s genial teapot is equally attractive to those who weigh their means in little scales. But to people unfamiliar with the Sussex roads⁠—and such were the three persons of this story⁠—the convergence did not appear to be so inevitable.</p>
				<p>Bechamel, tightening his chain in the Angel yard after dinner, was the first to be aware of their reunion. He saw Hoopdriver walk slowly across the gateway, his head enhaloed in cigarette smoke, and pass out of sight up the street. Incontinently a mass of cloudy uneasiness, that had been partly dispelled during the day, reappeared and concentrated rapidly into definite suspicion. He put his screw hammer into his pocket and walked through the archway into the street, to settle the business forthwith, for he prided himself on his decision. Hoopdriver was merely promenading, and they met face to face.</p>
				<p>At the sight of his adversary, something between disgust and laughter seized Mr. Hoopdriver and for a moment destroyed his animosity. “ ’Ere we are again!” he said, laughing insincerely in a sudden outbreak at the perversity of chance.</p>
				<p>The other man in brown stopped short in Mr. Hoopdriver’s way, staring. Then his face assumed an expression of dangerous civility. “Is it any information to you,” he said, with immense politeness, “when I remark that you are following us?”</p>
				<p>Mr. Hoopdriver, for some occult reason, resisted his characteristic impulse to apologise. He wanted to annoy the other man in brown, and a sentence that had come into his head in a previous rehearsal cropped up appropriately. “Since when,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, catching his breath, yet bringing the question out valiantly, nevertheless⁠—“since when ’ave you purchased the county of Sussex?”</p>
				<p>“May I point out,” said the other man in brown, “that I object⁠—we object not only to your proximity to us. To be frank⁠—you appear to be following us⁠—with an object.”</p>
				<p>“You can always,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, “turn round if you don’t like it, and go back the way you came.”</p>
				<p>“Oh-o!” said the other man in brown. “<i>That’s</i> it! I thought as much.”</p>
				<p>“Did you?” said Mr. Hoopdriver, quite at sea, but rising pluckily to the unknown occasion. What was the man driving at?</p>
				<p>“I see,” said the other man. “I see. I half suspected⁠—” His manner changed abruptly to a quality suspiciously friendly. “Yes⁠—a word with you. You will, I hope, give me ten minutes.”</p>
				<p>Wonderful things were dawning on Mr. Hoopdriver. What did the other man take him for? Here at last was reality! He hesitated. Then he thought of an admirable phrase. “You ’ave some communication⁠—”</p>
				<p>“We’ll call it a communication,” said the other man.</p>
				<p>“I can spare you the ten minutes,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, with dignity.</p>
				<p>“This way, then,” said the other man in brown, and they walked slowly down the North Street towards the Grammar School. There was, perhaps, thirty seconds’ silence. The other man stroked his moustache nervously. Mr. Hoopdriver’s dramatic instincts were now fully awake. He did not quite understand in what <i>rôle</i> he was cast, but it was evidently something dark and mysterious. Doctor Conan Doyle, Victor Hugo, and Alexander Dumas were well within Mr. Hoopdriver’s range of reading, and he had not read them for nothing.</p>
				<p>“I will be perfectly frank with you,” said the other man in brown.</p>
				<p>“Frankness is always the best course,” said Mr. Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>“Well, then⁠—who the devil set you on this business?”</p>
				<p>“Set me <i>on</i> this business?”</p>
				<p>“Don’t pretend to be stupid. Who’s your employer? Who engaged you for this job?”</p>
				<p>“Well,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, confused. “No⁠—I can’t say.”</p>
				<p>“Quite sure?” The other man in brown glanced meaningly down at his hand, and Mr. Hoopdriver, following him mechanically, saw a yellow milled edge glittering in the twilight. Now your shop assistant is just above the tip-receiving class, and only just above it⁠—so that he is acutely sensitive on the point.</p>
				<p>Mr. Hoopdriver flushed hotly, and his eyes were angry as he met those of the other man in brown. “Stow it!” said Mr. Hoopdriver, stopping and facing the tempter.</p>
				<p>“What!” said the other man in brown, surprised. “Eigh?” And so saying he stowed it in his breeches pocket.</p>
				<p>“D’yer think I’m to be bribed?” said Mr. Hoopdriver, whose imagination was rapidly expanding the situation. “By Gosh! I’d follow you now⁠—”</p>
				<p>“My dear sir,” said the other man in brown, “I beg your pardon. I misunderstood you. I really beg your pardon. Let us walk on. In your profession⁠—”</p>
				<p>“What have you got to say against my profession?”</p>
				<p>“Well, really, you know. There are detectives of an inferior description⁠—watchers. The whole class. Private Inquiry⁠—I did not realise⁠—I really trust you will overlook what was, after all⁠—you must admit⁠—a natural indiscretion. Men of honour are not so common in the world⁠—in any profession.”</p>
				<p>It was lucky for Mr. Hoopdriver that in Midhurst they do not light the lamps in the summer time, or the one they were passing had betrayed him. As it was, he had to snatch suddenly at his moustache and tug fiercely at it, to conceal the furious tumult of exultation, the passion of laughter, that came boiling up. Detective! Even in the shadow Bechamel saw that a laugh was stifled, but he put it down to the fact that the phrase “men of honour” amused his interlocutor. “He’ll come round yet,” said Bechamel to himself. “He’s simply holding out for a fiver.” He coughed.</p>
				<p>“I don’t see that it hurts you to tell me who your employer is.”</p>
				<p>“Don’t you? I do.”</p>
				<p>“Prompt,” said Bechamel, appreciatively. “Now here’s the thing I want to put to you⁠—the kernel of the whole business. You need not answer if you don’t want to. There’s no harm done in my telling you what I want to know. Are you employed to watch me⁠—or Miss Milton?”</p>
				<p>“I’m not the leaky sort,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, keeping the secret he did not know with immense enjoyment. Miss Milton! That was her name. Perhaps he’d tell some more. “It’s no good pumping. Is that all you’re after?” said Mr. Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>Bechamel respected himself for his diplomatic gifts. He tried to catch a remark by throwing out a confidence. “I take it there are two people concerned in watching this affair.”</p>
				<p>“Who’s the other?” said Mr. Hoopdriver, calmly, but controlling with enormous internal tension his self-appreciation. “Who’s the other?” was really brilliant, he thought.</p>
				<p>“There’s my wife and <i>her</i> stepmother.”</p>
				<p>“And you want to know which it is?”</p>
				<p>“Yes,” said Bechamel.</p>
				<p>“Well⁠—arst ’em!” said Mr. Hoopdriver, his exultation getting the better of him, and with a pretty consciousness of repartee. “Arst ’em both.”</p>
				<p>Bechamel turned impatiently. Then he made a last effort. “I’d give a five-pound note to know just the precise state of affairs,” he said.</p>
				<p>“I told you to stow that,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, in a threatening tone. And added with perfect truth and a magnificent mystery, “You don’t quite understand who you’re dealing with. But you will!” He spoke with such conviction that he half believed that that defective office of his in London⁠—Baker Street, in fact⁠—really existed.</p>
				<p>With that the interview terminated. Bechamel went back to the Angel, perturbed. “Hang detectives!” It wasn’t the kind of thing he had anticipated at all. Hoopdriver, with round eyes and a wondering smile, walked down to where the mill waters glittered in the moonlight, and after meditating over the parapet of the bridge for a space, with occasional murmurs of, “Private Inquiry” and the like, returned, with mystery even in his paces, towards the town.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="NN-XVIII" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
				<p>That glee which finds expression in raised eyebrows and long, low whistling noises was upon Mr. Hoopdriver. For a space he forgot the tears of the Young Lady in Grey. Here was a new game!⁠—and a real one. Mr. Hoopdriver as a Private Inquiry Agent, a Sherlock Holmes in fact, keeping these two people ‘under observation.’ He walked slowly back from the bridge until he was opposite the Angel, and stood for ten minutes, perhaps, contemplating that establishment and enjoying all the strange sensations of being this wonderful, this mysterious and terrible thing. Everything fell into place in his scheme. He had, of course, by a kind of instinct, assumed the disguise of a cyclist, picked up the first old crock he came across as a means of pursuit. ‘No expense was to be spared.’</p>
				<p>Then he tried to understand what it was in particular that he was observing. “My wife”⁠—“<i>Her</i> stepmother!” Then he remembered her swimming eyes. Abruptly came a wave of anger that surprised him, washed away the detective superstructure, and left him plain Mr. Hoopdriver. This man in brown, with his confident manner, and his proffered half sovereign (damn him!) was up to no good, else why should he object to being watched? He was married! She was not his sister. He began to understand. A horrible suspicion of the state of affairs came into Mr. Hoopdriver’s head. Surely it had not come to <i>that</i>. He was a detective!⁠—he would find out. How was it to be done? He began to submit sketches on approval to himself. It required an effort before he could walk into the Angel bar. “A lemonade and bitter, please,” said Mr. Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>He cleared his throat. “Are Mr. and Mrs. Bowlong stopping here?”</p>
				<p>“What, a gentleman and a young lady⁠—on bicycles?”</p>
				<p>“Fairly young⁠—a married couple.”</p>
				<p>“No,” said the barmaid, a talkative person of ample dimensions. “There’s no married couples stopping here. But there’s a Mr. and Miss <i>Beaumont</i>.” She spelt it for precision. “Sure you’ve got the name right, young man?”</p>
				<p>“Quite,” said Mr. Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>“Beaumont there is, but no one of the name of⁠—What was the name you gave?”</p>
				<p>“Bowlong,” said Mr. Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>“No, there ain’t no Bowlong,” said the barmaid, taking up a glasscloth and a drying tumbler and beginning to polish the latter. “First off, I thought you might be asking for Beaumont⁠—the names being similar. Were you expecting them on bicycles?”</p>
				<p>“Yes⁠—they said they <i>might</i> be in Midhurst tonight.”</p>
				<p>“P’raps they’ll come presently. Beaumont’s here, but no Bowlong. Sure that Beaumont ain’t the name?”</p>
				<p>“Certain,” said Mr. Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>“It’s curious the names being so alike. I thought p’raps⁠—”</p>
				<p>And so they conversed at some length, Mr. Hoopdriver delighted to find his horrible suspicion disposed of. The barmaid having listened awhile at the staircase volunteered some particulars of the young couple upstairs. Her modesty was much impressed by the young lady’s costume, so she intimated, and Mr. Hoopdriver whispered the badinage natural to the occasion, at which she was coquettishly shocked. “There’ll be no knowing which is which, in a year or two,” said the barmaid. “And her manner too! She got off her machine and give it ’im to stick up against the kerb, and in she marched. ‘I and my brother,’ says she, ‘want to stop here to-night. My brother doesn’t mind what kind of room ’e ’as, but I want a room with a good view, if there’s one to be got,’ says she. He comes hurrying in after and looks at her. ‘I’ve settled the rooms,’ she says, and ’e says ‘damn!’ just like that. I can fancy my brother letting me boss the show like that.”</p>
				<p>“I dessay you do,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, “if the truth was known.”</p>
				<p>The barmaid looked down, smiled and shook her head, put down the tumbler, polished, and took up another that had been draining, and shook the drops of water into her little zinc sink.</p>
				<p>“She’ll be a nice little lot to marry,” said the barmaid. “She’ll be wearing the⁠—well, b-dashes, as the sayin’ is. I can’t think what girls is comin’ to.”</p>
				<p>This depreciation of the Young Lady in Grey was hardly to Hoopdriver’s taste.</p>
				<p>“Fashion,” said he, taking up his change. “Fashion is all the go with you ladies⁠—and always was. You’ll be wearing ’em yourself before a couple of years is out.”</p>
				<p>“Nice they’d look on my figger,” said the barmaid, with a titter. “No⁠—I ain’t one of your fashionable sort. Gracious no! I shouldn’t feel as if I’d anything on me, not more than if I’d forgot⁠—Well, there! I’m talking.” She put down the glass abruptly. “I dessay I’m old fashioned,” she said, and walked humming down the bar.</p>
				<p>“Not you,” said Mr. Hoopdriver. He waited until he caught her eye, then with his native courtesy smiled, raised his cap, and wished her good evening.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="NN-XIX" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p>Then Mr. Hoopdriver returned to the little room with the lead-framed windows where he had dined, and where the bed was now comfortably made, sat down on the box under the window, stared at the moon rising on the shining vicarage roof, and tried to collect his thoughts. How they whirled at first! It was past ten, and most of Midhurst was tucked away in bed, some one up the street was learning the violin, at rare intervals a belated inhabitant hurried home and woke the echoes, and a corncrake kept up a busy churning in the vicarage garden. The sky was deep blue, with a still luminous afterglow along the black edge of the hill, and the white moon overhead, save for a couple of yellow stars, had the sky to herself.</p>
				<p>At first his thoughts were kinetic, of deeds and not relationships. There was this malefactor, and his victim, and it had fallen on Mr. Hoopdriver to take a hand in the game. <i>He</i> was married. Did she know he was married? Never for a moment did a thought of evil concerning her cross Hoopdriver’s mind. Simple-minded people see questions of morals so much better than superior persons⁠—who have read and thought themselves complex to impotence. He had heard her voice, seen the frank light in her eyes, and she had been weeping⁠—that sufficed. The rights of the case he hadn’t properly grasped. But he would. And that smirking⁠—well, swine was the mildest for him. He recalled the exceedingly unpleasant incident of the railway bridge. “Thin we won’t detain yer, thenks,” said Mr. Hoopdriver, aloud, in a strange, unnatural, contemptible voice, supposed to represent that of Bechamel. “Oh, the <i>beggar!</i> I’ll be level with him yet. He’s afraid of us detectives⁠—that I’ll <i>swear</i>.” (If Mrs. Wardor should chance to be on the other side of the door within earshot, well and good.)</p>
				<p>For a space he meditated chastisements and revenges, physical impossibilities for the most part⁠—Bechamel staggering headlong from the impact of Mr. Hoopdriver’s large, but, to tell the truth, ill supported fist, Bechamel’s five feet nine of height lifted from the ground and quivering under a vigorously applied horsewhip. So pleasant was such dreaming, that Mr. Hoopdriver’s peaked face under the moonlight was transfigured. One might have paired him with that well-known and universally admired triumph, ‘The Soul’s Awakening,’ so sweet was his ecstasy. And presently with his thirst for revenge glutted by six or seven violent assaults, a duel and two vigorous murders, his mind came round to the Young Lady in Grey again.</p>
				<p>She was a plucky one too. He went over the incident the barmaid at the Angel had described to him. His thoughts ceased to be a torrent, smoothed down to a mirror in which she was reflected with infinite clearness and detail. He’d never met anything like her before. Fancy that bolster of a barmaid being dressed in that way! He whuffed a contemptuous laugh. He compared her colour, her vigour, her voice, with the Young Ladies in Business with whom his lot had been cast. Even in tears she was beautiful, more beautiful indeed to him, for it made her seem softer and weaker, more accessible. And such weeping as he had seen before had been so much a matter of damp white faces, red noses, and hair coming out of curl. Your draper’s assistant becomes something of a judge of weeping, because weeping is the custom of all Young Ladies in Business, when for any reason their services are dispensed with. She could weep⁠—and (by Gosh!) she could smile. <i>He</i> knew that, and reverting to acting abruptly, he smiled confidentially at the puckered pallor of the moon.</p>
				<p>It is difficult to say how long Mr. Hoopdriver’s pensiveness lasted. It seemed a long time before his thoughts of action returned. Then he remembered he was a ‘watcher’; that to-morrow he must be busy. It would be in character to make notes, and he pulled out his little note-book. With that in hand he fell a-thinking again. Would that chap tell her the ’tecks were after them? If so, would she be as anxious to get away as <i>he</i> was? He must be on the alert. If possible he must speak to her. Just a significant word, “Your friend⁠—trust me!”⁠—It occurred to him that to-morrow these fugitives might rise early to escape. At that he thought of the time and found it was half-past eleven. “Lord!” said he, “I must see that I wake.” He yawned and rose. The blind was up, and he pulled back the little chintz curtains to let the sunlight strike across to the bed, hung his watch within good view of his pillow, on a nail that supported a kettle-holder, and sat down on his bed to undress. He lay awake for a little while thinking of the wonderful possibilities of the morrow, and thence he passed gloriously into the wonderland of dreams.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
