<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>At the Rufus Stone</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">At the Rufus Stone</h2>
			<section id="chapter-25-38" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
				<p>He folded his arms as Dangle and Phipps returned towards him. Phipps was abashed by his inability to cope with the tandem, which he was now wheeling, but Dangle was inclined to be quarrelsome. ‚ÄúMiss Milton?‚Äù he said briefly.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver bowed over his folded arms.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMiss Milton within?‚Äù said Dangle.</p>
				<p>‚Äú<em>And</em> not to be disturved,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou are a scoundrel, sir,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDangle.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúEt your service,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver. ‚ÄúShe awaits ‚Äôer stepmother, sir.‚Äù</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDangle hesitated. ‚ÄúShe will be here immediately,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúHere is her friend, Miss Mergle.‚Äù</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver unfolded his arms slowly, and, with an air of immense calm, thrust his hands into his breeches pockets. Then with one of those fatal hesitations of his, it occurred to him that this attitude was merely vulgarly defiant; he withdrew both, returned one and pulled at the insufficient moustache with the other. Miss Mergle caught him in confusion. ‚ÄúIs this the man?‚Äù she said to Dangle, and forthwith, ‚ÄúHow <em>dare</em> you, sir? How dare you face me? That poor girl!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou will permit me to observe,‚Äù began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver, with a splendid drawl, seeing himself, for the first time in all this business, as a romantic villain.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúUgh,‚Äù said Miss Mergle, unexpectedly striking him about the midriff with her extended palms, and sending him staggering backward into the hall of the hotel.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúLet me pass,‚Äù said Miss Mergle, in towering indignation. ‚ÄúHow dare you resist my passage?‚Äù and so swept by him and into the dining-room, wherein Jessie had sought refuge.</p>
				<p>As <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver struggled for equilibrium with the umbrella-stand, Dangle and Phipps, roused from their inertia by Miss Mergle‚Äôs activity, came in upon her heels, Phipps leading. ‚ÄúHow dare you prevent that lady passing?‚Äù said Phipps.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver looked obstinate, and, to Dangle‚Äôs sense, dangerous, but he made no answer. A waiter in full bloom appeared at the end of the passage, guardant. ‚ÄúIt is men of your stamp, sir,‚Äù said Phipps, ‚Äúwho discredit manhood.‚Äù</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver thrust his hands into his pockets. ‚ÄúWho the juice are you?‚Äù shouted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver, fiercely.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWho are <em>you</em>, sir?‚Äù retorted Phipps. ‚ÄúWho are you? That‚Äôs the question. What are <em>you</em>, and what are you doing, wandering at large with a young lady under age?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt speak to him,‚Äù said Dangle.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm not a-going to tell all my secrets to any one who comes at me,‚Äù said Hoopdriver. ‚ÄúNot Likely.‚Äù And added fiercely, ‚ÄúAnd that I tell you, sir.‚Äù</p>
				<p>He and Phipps stood, legs apart and both looking exceedingly fierce at one another, and Heaven alone knows what might not have happened, if the long clergyman had not appeared in the doorway, heated but deliberate. ‚ÄúPetticoated anachronism,‚Äù said the long clergyman in the doorway, apparently still suffering from the antiquated prejudice that demanded a third wheel and a black coat from a clerical rider. He looked at Phipps and Hoopdriver for a moment, then extending his hand towards the latter, he waved it up and down three times, saying, ‚ÄúTchak, tchak, tchak,‚Äù very deliberately as he did so. Then with a concluding ‚ÄúUgh!‚Äù and a gesture of repugnance he passed on into the dining-room from which the voice of Miss Mergle was distinctly audible remarking that the weather was extremely hot even for the time of year.</p>
				<p>This expression of extreme disapprobation had a very demoralizing effect upon Hoopdriver, a demoralization that was immediately completed by the advent of the massive Widgery.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIs this the man?‚Äù said Widgery very grimly, and producing a special voice for the occasion from somewhere deep in his neck.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt hurt him!‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton, with clasped hands. ‚ÄúHowever much wrong he has done her‚ÅÝ‚ÄîNo violence!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôOw many more of you?‚Äù said Hoopdriver, at bay before the umbrella stand. ‚ÄúWhere is she? What has he done with her?‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm not going to stand here and be insulted by a lot of strangers,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver. ‚ÄúSo you needn‚Äôt think it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúPlease don‚Äôt worry, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver,‚Äù said Jessie, suddenly appearing in the door of the dining-room. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm here, mother.‚Äù Her face was white.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton said something about her child, and made an emotional charge at Jessie. The embrace vanished into the dining-room. Widgery moved as if to follow, and hesitated. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôd better make yourself scarce,‚Äù he said to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI shan‚Äôt do anything of the kind,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver, with a catching of the breath. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm here defending that young lady.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôve done her enough mischief, I should think,‚Äù said Widgery, suddenly walking towards the dining-room, and closing the door behind him, leaving Dangle and Phipps with Hoopdriver.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúClear!‚Äù said Phipps, threateningly.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI shall go and sit out in the garden,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver, with dignity. ‚ÄúThere I shall remain.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt make a row with him,‚Äù said Dangle.</p>
				<p>And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver retired, unassaulted, in almost sobbing dignity.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-25-39" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h3>
				<p>So here is the world with us again, and our sentimental excursion is over. In the front of the Rufus Stone Hotel conceive a remarkable collection of wheeled instruments, watched over by Dangle and Phipps in grave and stately attitudes, and by the driver of a stylish dogcart from Ringwood. In the garden behind, in an attitude of nervous prostration, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver was seated on a rustic seat. Through the open window of a private sitting-room came a murmur of voices, as of men and women in conference. Occasionally something that might have been a girlish sob.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI fail to see what status Widgery has,‚Äù says Dangle, ‚Äúthrusting himself in there.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe takes too much upon himself,‚Äù said Phipps.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve been noticing little things, yesterday and to-day,‚Äù said Dangle, and stopped.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThey went to the cathedral together in the afternoon.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúFinancially it would be a good thing for her, of course,‚Äù said Dangle, with a gloomy magnanimity.</p>
				<p>He felt drawn to Phipps now by the common trouble, in spite of the man‚Äôs chequered legs. ‚ÄúFinancially it wouldn‚Äôt be half bad.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs so dull and heavy,‚Äù said Phipps.</p>
				<p>Meanwhile, within, the clergyman had, by promptitude and dexterity, taken the chair and was opening the case against the unfortunate Jessie. I regret to have to say that my heroine had been appalled by the visible array of public opinion against her excursion, to the pitch of tears. She was sitting with flushed cheeks and swimming eyes at the end of the table opposite to the clergyman. She held her handkerchief crumpled up in her extended hand. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton sat as near to her as possible, and occasionally made little dabs with her hand at Jessie‚Äôs hand, to indicate forgiveness. These advances were not reciprocated, which touched Widgery very much. The lady in green, Miss Mergle (B. A.), sat on the opposite side near the clergyman. She was the strong-minded schoolmistress to whom Jessie had written, and who had immediately precipitated the pursuit upon her. She had picked up the clergyman in Ringwood, and had told him everything forthwith, having met him once at a British Association meeting. He had immediately constituted himself administrator of the entire business. Widgery, having been foiled in an attempt to conduct the proceedings, stood with his legs wide apart in front of the fireplace ornament, and looked profound and sympathetic. Jessie‚Äôs account of her adventures was a chary one and given amidst frequent interruptions. She surprised herself by skilfully omitting any allusion to the Bechamel episode. She completely exonerated Hoopdriver from the charge of being more than an accessory to her escapade. But public feeling was heavy against Hoopdriver. Her narrative was inaccurate and sketchy, but happily the others were too anxious to pass opinions to pin her down to particulars. At last they had all the facts they would permit.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy dear young lady,‚Äù said the clergyman, ‚ÄúI can only ascribe this extravagant and regrettable expedition of yours to the wildest misconceptions of your place in the world and of your duties and responsibilities. Even now, it seems to me, your present emotion is due not so much to a real and sincere penitence for your disobedience and folly as to a positive annoyance at our most fortunate interference‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNot that,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton, in a low tone. ‚ÄúNot that.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut <em>why</em> did she go off like this?‚Äù said Widgery. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what <em>I</em> want to know.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Jessie made an attempt to speak, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton said ‚ÄúHush!‚Äù and the ringing tenor of the clergyman rode triumphantly over the meeting. ‚ÄúI cannot understand this spirit of unrest that has seized upon the more intelligent portion of the feminine community. You had a pleasant home, a most refined and intelligent lady in the position of your mother, to cherish and protect you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIf I <em>had</em> a mother,‚Äù gulped Jessie, succumbing to the obvious snare of self-pity, and sobbing.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúTo cherish, protect, and advise you. And you must needs go out of it all alone into a strange world of unknown dangers‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI wanted to learn,‚Äù said Jessie.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou wanted to learn. May you never have anything to UNlearn.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚Äú<em>Ah!</em>‚Äù from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton, very sadly.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt isn‚Äôt fair for all of you to argue at me at once,‚Äù submitted Jessie, irrelevantly.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúA world full of unknown dangers,‚Äù resumed the clergyman. ‚ÄúYour proper place was surely the natural surroundings that are part of you. You have been unduly influenced, it is only too apparent, by a class of literature which, with all due respect to distinguished authoress that shall be nameless, I must call the New Woman Literature. In that deleterious ingredient of our book boxes‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt altogether agree with you there,‚Äù said Miss Mergle, throwing her head back and regarding him firmly through her spectacles, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝWidgery coughed.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat <em>has</em> all this to do with me?‚Äù asked Jessie, availing herself of the interruption.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe point is,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton, on her defence, ‚Äúthat in my books‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAll I want to do,‚Äù said Jessie, ‚Äúis to go about freely by myself. Girls do so in America. Why not here?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúSocial conditions are entirely different in America,‚Äù said Miss Mergle. ‚ÄúHere we respect Class Distinctions.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs very unfortunate. What I want to know is, why I cannot go away for a holiday if I want to.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWith a strange young man, socially your inferior,‚Äù said Widgery, and made her flush by his tone.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy not?‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúWith anybody.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThey don‚Äôt do that, even in America,‚Äù said Miss Mergle.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy dear young lady,‚Äù said the clergyman, ‚Äúthe most elementary principles of decorum‚ÅÝ‚ÄîA day will come when you will better understand how entirely subservient your ideas are to the very fundamentals of our present civilisation, when you will better understand the harrowing anxiety you have given <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton by this inexplicable flight of yours. We can only put things down at present, in charity, to your ignorance‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou have to consider the general body of opinion, too,‚Äù said Widgery.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúPrecisely,‚Äù said Miss Mergle. ‚ÄúThere is no such thing as conduct in the absolute.‚Äù ‚ÄúIf once this most unfortunate business gets about,‚Äù said the clergyman, ‚Äúit will do you infinite harm.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut <em>I‚Äôve</em> done nothing wrong. Why should I be responsible for other people‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe world has no charity,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúFor a girl,‚Äù said Jessie. ‚ÄúNo.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNow do let us stop arguing, my dear young lady, and let us listen to reason. Never mind how or why, this conduct of yours will do you infinite harm, if once it is generally known. And not only that, it will cause infinite pain to those who care for you. But if you will return at once to your home, causing it to be understood that you have been with friends for these last few days‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúTell lies,‚Äù said Jessie. ‚ÄúCertainly not. Most certainly not. But I understand that is how your absence is understood at present, and there is no reason‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>Jessie‚Äôs grip tightened on her handkerchief. ‚ÄúI won‚Äôt go back,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúto have it as I did before. I want a room of my own, what books I need to read, to be free to go out by myself alone, Teaching‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnything,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton, ‚Äúanything in reason.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut will you keep your promise?‚Äù said Jessie.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúSurely you won‚Äôt dictate to your mother!‚Äù said Widgery.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy stepmother! I don‚Äôt want to dictate. I want definite promises now.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThis is most unreasonable,‚Äù said the clergyman. ‚ÄúVery well,‚Äù said Jessie, swallowing a sob but with unusual resolution. ‚ÄúThen I won‚Äôt go back. My life is being frittered away‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚Äú<em>Let</em> her have her way,‚Äù said Widgery.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúA room then. All your Men. I‚Äôm not to come down and talk away half my days‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy dear child, if only to save you,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMilton. ‚ÄúIf you don‚Äôt keep your promise‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThen I take it the matter is practically concluded,‚Äù said the clergyman. ‚ÄúAnd that you very properly submit to return to your proper home. And now, if I may offer a suggestion, it is that we take tea. Freed of its tannin, nothing, I think, is more refreshing and stimulating.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a train from Lyndhurst at thirteen minutes to six,‚Äù said Widgery, unfolding a time table. ‚ÄúThat gives us about half an hour or three-quarters here‚ÅÝ‚Äîif a conveyance is obtainable, that is.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúA gelatine lozenge dropped into the tea cup precipitates the tannin in the form of tannate of gelatine,‚Äù said the clergyman to Miss Mergle, in a confidential bray.</p>
				<p>Jessie stood up, and saw through the window a depressed head and shoulders over the top of the back of a garden seat. She moved towards the door. ‚ÄúWhile you have tea, mother,‚Äù she said, ‚ÄúI must tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver of our arrangements.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you think I‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù began the clergyman.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù said Jessie, very rudely; ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut, Jessie, haven‚Äôt you already‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou are already breaking the capitulation,‚Äù said Jessie.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWill you want the whole half hour?‚Äù said Widgery, at the bell.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúEvery minute,‚Äù said Jessie, in the doorway. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs behaved very nobly to me.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs tea,‚Äù said Widgery.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve had tea.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe may not have behaved badly,‚Äù said the clergyman. ‚ÄúBut he‚Äôs certainly an astonishingly weak person to let a wrong-headed young girl‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>Jessie closed the door into the garden.</p>
				<p>Meanwhile <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver made a sad figure in the sunlight outside. It was over, this wonderful excursion of his, so far as she was concerned, and with the swift blow that separated them, he realised all that those days had done for him. He tried to grasp the bearings of their position. Of course, they would take her away to those social altitudes of hers. She would become an inaccessible young lady again. Would they let him say good-bye to her?</p>
				<p>How extraordinary it had all been! He recalled the moment when he had first seen her riding, with the sunlight behind her, along the riverside road; he recalled that wonderful night at Bognor, remembering it as if everything had been done of his own initiative. ‚ÄúBrave, brave!‚Äù she had called him. And afterwards, when she came down to him in the morning, kindly, quiet. But ought he to have persuaded her then to return to her home? He remembered some intention of the sort. Now these people snatched her away from him as though he was scarcely fit to live in the same world with her. No more he was! He felt he had presumed upon her worldly ignorance in travelling with her day after day. She was so dainty, so delightful, so serene. He began to recapitulate her expressions, the light of her eyes, the turn of her face‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
				<p>He wasn‚Äôt good enough to walk in the same road with her. Nobody was. Suppose they let him say good-bye to her; what could he say? That? But they were sure not to let her talk to him alone; her mother would be there as‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat was it? <em>Chaperone</em>. He‚Äôd never once had a chance of saying what he felt; indeed, it was only now he was beginning to realise what he felt. Love! he wouldn‚Äôt presume. It was worship. If only he could have one more chance. He must have one more chance, somewhere, somehow. Then he would pour out his soul to her eloquently. He felt eloquently, and words would come. He was dust under her feet‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
				<p>His meditation was interrupted by the click of a door handle, and Jessie appeared in the sunlight under the verandah. ‚ÄúCome away from here,‚Äù she said to Hoopdriver, as he rose to meet her. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm going home with them. We have to say good-bye.‚Äù</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver winced, opened and shut his mouth, and rose without a word.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-25-40" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h3>
				<p>At first Jessie Milton and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHoopdriver walked away from the hotel in silence. He heard a catching in her breath and glanced at her and saw her lips pressed tight and a tear on her cheek. Her face was hot and bright. She was looking straight before her. He could think of nothing to say, and thrust his hands in his pockets and looked away from her intentionally. After a while she began to talk. They dealt disjointedly with scenery first, and then with the means of self-education. She took his address at Antrobus‚Äôs and promised to send him some books. But even with that it was spiritless, aching talk, Hoopdriver felt, for the fighting mood was over. She seemed, to him, preoccupied with the memories of her late battle, and that appearance hurt him.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the end,‚Äù he whispered to himself. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the end.‚Äù</p>
				<p>They went into a hollow and up a gentle wooded slope, and came at last to a high and open space overlooking a wide expanse of country. There, by a common impulse, they stopped. She looked at her watch‚ÅÝ‚Äîa little ostentatiously. They stared at the billows of forest rolling away beneath them, crest beyond crest, of leafy trees, fading at last into blue.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe end‚Äù ran through his mind, to the exclusion of all speakable thoughts.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd so,‚Äù she said, presently, breaking the silence, ‚Äúit comes to good-bye.‚Äù</p>
				<p>For half a minute he did not answer. Then he gathered his resolution. ‚ÄúThere is one thing I <em>must</em> say.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWell?‚Äù she said, surprised and abruptly forgetting the recent argument. ‚ÄúI ask no return. But‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>Then he stopped. ‚ÄúI won‚Äôt say it. It‚Äôs no good. It would be rot from me‚ÅÝ‚Äînow. I wasn‚Äôt going to say anything. Good-bye.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She looked at him with a startled expression in her eyes. ‚ÄúNo,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúBut don‚Äôt forget you are going to work. Remember, brother Chris, you are my friend. You will work. You are not a very strong man, you know, now‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou will forgive me‚ÅÝ‚Äînor do you know all you should. But what will you be in six years‚Äô time?‚Äù</p>
				<p>He stared hard in front of him still, and the lines about his weak mouth seemed to strengthen. He knew she understood what he could not say.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll work,‚Äù he said, concisely. They stood side by side for a moment. Then he said, with a motion of his head, ‚ÄúI won‚Äôt come back to <em>them</em>. Do you mind? Going back alone?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She took ten seconds to think. ‚ÄúNo.‚Äù she said, and held out her hand, biting her nether lip. ‚Äú<em>Good-bye</em>,‚Äù she whispered.</p>
				<p>He turned, with a white face, looked into her eyes, took her hand limply, and then with a sudden impulse, lifted it to his lips. She would have snatched it away, but his grip tightened to her movement. She felt the touch of his lips, and then he had dropped her fingers and turned from her and was striding down the slope. A dozen paces away his foot turned in the lip of a rabbit hole, and he stumbled forward and almost fell. He recovered his balance and went on, not looking back. He never once looked back. She stared at his receding figure until it was small and far below her, and then, the tears running over her eyelids now, turned slowly, and walked with her hands gripped hard together behind her, towards Stoney Cross again.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI did not know,‚Äù she whispered to herself. ‚ÄúI did not understand. Even now‚ÅÝ‚ÄîNo, I do not understand.‚Äù</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
